AWS Lambda:
if we use EC2 instance which are virtual servers in the cloud - but it is limited by RAM and CPU we give it.
continuously running - although sometimes we do not even use it.
scaling means => intervention to add / remove servers, we can use autoscaling group and etc.

with Lambda - this is a new way to think about it
in this case we don't have servers - we just have VIRTUAL FUNCTIONS - no servers to manage.
these functions are limited by time - short executions.
run on demand - meaning whenever we run a function it wil lbe there to run
and when we dont need a function t will not be run and we will not be built for it
and in case we need scaling - it is Automated! => scaling is automated.

Benefits:
pricing super easy - pay per request and per compute time
free tier of 1000000 AWS Lambda requests every month and 400000 GB seconds of compute time.
integrated with the whole AWS suite of services
event driven - functions get invoked by AWS when needed or based on an event - so that makes Lambda a reactive type of service
integrated with many programming languages
easy monitoring through AWS CloudWatch
easy to get resources per functions (up to 10GB of RAM)
increasing the RAM will also improve CPU and network.

AWS Lambda langauge support:
nodejs
python
C#
Java
GOlang
powershell
ruby
custom runtime API
Lambda container image  - this allows you to run actual docker containers =>
the container image must implement the Lambda Runtime API
which is not the case for every docker image => so they are very very specific Docker images

when it comes to running Docker containers on AWS =>
ECS / Fargate is preffered for running arbitrary Docker images

example: Serverless CRON Jon
so Cron allows you to define a schedule (every hour, every day, every monday..) and based on that schedule to run a script
and by default a CRON job is run on a Linux AMI but we are serverless so we cannot provision an EC2 instance
so instead we'll be using something called CloudWatch Events or EventBridge
and this service - will be triggering every hour our Lambda function to perform a task
cloudwatch events are serverless
so effectivley we are launching a script every hour through a Lambda function

pricing:
you pay per calls:
    first 1000000 are free.
    $0.20 per 1 million requests thereafter $0.0000002 per request
pay per duration in increment of 1 millisecond
    400000 GB seconds of compute per month is free
    === 400000 seconds if function is 1GB of RAM
    or === 3200000 seconds if function is 128 MB RAM
    after that you are going to pay $1.00 for 600000 GB seconds

Bottom-line:
very cheap to run AWS Lambda and it;s very popular
for the exam you need to remember that lambda pricing is based on calls and durations.








